take a moment to read the following
how was that frustrating slow what were
those sentences about they're actually a
simulation of the experience of dyslexia
designed to make you decode each word
those with dyslexia experience that
laborious pace every time they read when
most people think of dyslexia they think
of seeing letters and words backwards
like seeing B as D and vice versa or
they might think people with dyslexia C
saw as was the truth is people with
dyslexia see things the same way as
everyone else dyslexia is caused by a
phonological processing problem meaning
people affected by it have trouble not
with seeing language but with
manipulating it for example if you heard
the word cat and then someone asked you
remove the see what word would you have
left at this can be difficult for those
with dyslexia given a word in isolation
like fantastic students with dyslexia
need to break the word in two parts to
read it fan TAS tick time spent decoding
makes it hard to keep up with peers and
gain sufficient comprehension spelling
words phonetically like STI k4 stick and
fre ns for friends is also common these
difficulties are more widespread and
varied than commonly imagined dyslexia
effects up to 1 in 5 people it occurs on
a continuum one person might have mild
dyslexia while the next person has a
profound case of it dyslexia also runs
in families it's common to see one
family member who has trouble spelling
while another family member has severe
difficulty decoding even one syllable
words like catch
continuum and distribution of dyslexia
suggests a broader principle to bear in
mind as we look at how the brains of
those with dyslexia process language
neurodiversity is the idea that because
all our brains show differences in
structure and function we shouldn't be
so quick to label every deviation from
the norm as a pathological disorder or
dismiss people living with these
variations as defective people with
neurobiological variations like dyslexia
including such creative and inventive
individuals as Picasso
Muhammad Ali would be Goldberg Steven
Spielberg and Cher
clearly have every capacity to be
brilliant and successful in life so
here's the special way the brains of
those with dyslexia work the brain is
divided into two hemispheres the left
hemisphere is generally in charge of
language and ultimately reading while
the right typically handles spatial
activities fMRI studies have found that
the brains of those with dyslexia rely
more on the right hemisphere and a
frontal lobe than the brains of those
without it this means when they read a
word it takes a longer trip through
their brain and can get delayed in the
frontal lobe because of this
neurobiological glitch they read with
more difficulty but those with dyslexia
can physically change their brain and
improve their reading with an intensive
multi-sensory intervention that breaks
the language down and teaches the reader
to decode based on syllable types and
spelling rules the brains of those with
dyslexia begin using the left hemisphere
more efficiently while reading and
they're reading improves the
intervention works because it locates
dyslexia appropriately as a functional
variation in the brain which naturally
shows all sorts of variations from one
person to another neurodiversity
emphasizes this spectrum of brain
function in all humans and suggests that
to better understand the perspectives of
those around us we should try to not
only see the world through their eyes
but understand it through their brains
you